README.md, before:

# Interview Scheduler

- [About](#about)
- [Features](#features)
- [Final product](#final-product)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Testing](#testing)
- [Deployed app](#deployed-app)
- [Dependencies](#dependencies)
- [Development dependencies](#development-dependencies)

---

## About

The **Interview Scheduler** is a single page app built with [React](https://reactjs.org/) that allows a user to book an appointment with an interviewer.

---

## Features

All the features are implemented, including the **stretch** components of the project:

- The application state is controlled with a **reducer**.
- Appointments are updated for multi-user situations through a **WebSocket** connection.
- The application is **deployed** online with a continuous pipeline to run tests automatically.

In addition to the project requirements the app also validates user input to ensure that an interviewer is selected (rather than only checking for non-empty student names).

---

## Final product

#### Showing all the appointments booked for a day

![Showing appointments](./docs/showing-appts.png)

#### Editing an appointment

![Editing an appointment](./docs/editing-appts.png)

---

## Installation

Clone the repository with [git](https://git-scm.com/):

```shell
git clone git@github.com:ycandau/scheduler.git
```

Install all the dependencies with [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/):

```shell
npm install
```

Copy the `.env.example` file to `.env.development` and fill in the URL for the WebSocket connection:

```shell
REACT_APP_WEBSOCKET_URL=ws://localhost:8001
```

The app also requires the [Interview Scheduler API](https://github.com/lighthouse-labs/scheduler-api) to be installed separately, and a [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/) database set up and running in Vagrant. Instructions are provided in the Scheduler API [README](https://github.com/lighthouse-labs/scheduler-api#readme).

---

## Usage

Start Vagrant so that the PostgreSQL database is available:

```shell
vagrant up
```

Start the Interview Scheduler API (from the corresponding repository, not this one):

```shell
npm start
```

Start the [Webpack](https://webpack.js.org/) development server (from **this** repository):

```shell
npm start
```

The development server will automatically open a browser at `http://localhost:8000/` with the app running.

---

## Testing

The project takes advantage of multiple testing frameworks:

- Static testing with the [prop-types](https://www.npmjs.com/package/prop-types) package.
- Unit testing with [Storybook](https://storybook.js.org/).
- Unit testing and integration testing with [Jest](https://jestjs.io/) and the [Testing library](https://testing-library.com/).
- End to end testing with [Cypress](https://www.cypress.io/).

#### To run Storybook

```shell
npm run storybook
```

#### To run Jest

```shell
npm test
```

A coverage report can also be generated with:

```shell
npm test -- --coverage --watchAll=false
```

#### To run Cypress

The project was developed with Cypress installed globally. Thus running Cypress for the project first requires:

```shell
npm i -g cypress
```

Make sure that the Scheduler API server is running in **test** mode. The tests will not work if the API server is running in development mode. Then:

```shell
npm run cypress
```

---

## Deployed app

The app has been deployed on [Netlify](https://www.netlify.com/), with the Scheduler API deployed on [Heroku](heroku.com), and a continuous pipeline with automated testing provided by [CircleCI](https://circleci.com/).

The deployed app is available at: https://yc-scheduler-lhl.netlify.app/

Please note that it can take a moment for the API to start up on Heroku and serve the appointments.

---

## Dependencies

- [React](https://reactjs.org/)
- [axios](https://www.npmjs.com/package/axios)
- [classnames](https://www.npmjs.com/package/classnames)
- [normalize](https://www.npmjs.com/package/normalize)

---

## Development dependencies

- [Babel](https://babeljs.io/)
- [Storybook](https://storybook.js.org/)
- [Testing library](https://testing-library.com/)
- [node-sass](https://www.npmjs.com/package/node-sass)
- [prop-types](https://www.npmjs.com/package/prop-types)
- [react-test-renderer](https://reactjs.org/docs/test-renderer.html)

Commit message:

Edit README and add image for continuous integration

README.md, after:

# Interview Scheduler

- [About](#about)
- [Features](#features)
- [Final product](#final-product)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Testing](#testing)
- [Deployed app](#deployed-app)
- [Dependencies](#dependencies)
- [Development dependencies](#development-dependencies)

---

## About

The **Interview Scheduler** is a single page app built with [React](https://reactjs.org/) that allows a user to book an appointment with an interviewer.

---

## Features

All the features are implemented, including the **stretch** components of the project:

- The application state is controlled with a **reducer**.
- Appointments are updated for multi-user situations through a **WebSocket** connection.
- The application is **deployed** online with a continuous pipeline to run tests automatically.

In addition to the project requirements the app also validates user input to ensure that an interviewer is selected (rather than only checking for non-empty student names).

---

## Final product

#### Showing all the appointments booked for a day

![Showing appointments](./docs/showing-appts.png)

#### Editing an appointment

![Editing an appointment](./docs/editing-appts.png)

---

## Installation

Clone the repository with [git](https://git-scm.com/):

```shell
git clone git@github.com:ycandau/scheduler.git
```

Install all the dependencies with [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/):

```shell
npm install
```

Copy the `.env.example` file to `.env.development` and fill in the URL for the WebSocket connection:

```shell
REACT_APP_WEBSOCKET_URL=ws://localhost:8001
```

The app also requires the [Interview Scheduler API](https://github.com/lighthouse-labs/scheduler-api) to be installed separately, and a [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/) database set up and running in Vagrant. Instructions are provided in the Scheduler API [README](https://github.com/lighthouse-labs/scheduler-api#readme).

---

## Usage

Start Vagrant so that the PostgreSQL database is available:

```shell
vagrant up
```

Start the Interview Scheduler API (from the corresponding repository, not this one):

```shell
npm start
```

Start the [Webpack](https://webpack.js.org/) development server (from **this** repository):

```shell
npm start
```

The development server will automatically open a browser at `http://localhost:8000/` with the app running.

---

## Testing

The project takes advantage of multiple testing frameworks:

- Static testing with the [prop-types](https://www.npmjs.com/package/prop-types) package.
- Unit testing with [Storybook](https://storybook.js.org/).
- Unit testing and integration testing with [Jest](https://jestjs.io/) and the [Testing library](https://testing-library.com/).
- End to end testing with [Cypress](https://www.cypress.io/).

#### To run Storybook

```shell
npm run storybook
```

#### To run Jest

```shell
npm test
```

A coverage report can also be generated with:

```shell
npm test -- --coverage --watchAll=false
```

#### To run Cypress

The project was developed with Cypress installed globally. Thus running Cypress for the project first requires:

```shell
npm i -g cypress
```

Make sure that the Scheduler API server is running in **test** mode. The tests will not work if the API server is running in development mode. Then:

```shell
npm run cypress
```

---

## Deployed app

The app has been deployed on **Netlify**, with the Scheduler API deployed on **Heroku**.

The deployed app is available at: https://yc-scheduler-lhl.netlify.app/

Please note that it can take a moment for the API to start up on Heroku and serve the appointments.

Continuous integration to automate testing and deployment is set up through [CircleCI](https://circleci.com/):

![Continuous pipeline](./docs/continuous-pipeline.png)

---

## Dependencies

- [React](https://reactjs.org/)
- [axios](https://www.npmjs.com/package/axios)
- [classnames](https://www.npmjs.com/package/classnames)
- [normalize](https://www.npmjs.com/package/normalize)

---

## Development dependencies

- [Babel](https://babeljs.io/)
- [Storybook](https://storybook.js.org/)
- [Testing library](https://testing-library.com/)
- [node-sass](https://www.npmjs.com/package/node-sass)
- [prop-types](https://www.npmjs.com/package/prop-types)
- [react-test-renderer](https://reactjs.org/docs/test-renderer.html)
